#summary Version 3.16 - Documentation in progress..

= Jobs =

A job is a simple command to run on one of the workers. Each job has an ID chosen by the server.

A job can be submitted to the server using *control.py* or a HTTP request.

== Job attributes ==

A job may have different attributes. For example, the job attribute *cmd* is the command to execute.

The different job attributes used to initialise a job are :

 * *cmd* : the command to run
 * *title* : the title to display in the user interface
 * *dir* : the job's working directory
 * *env* : an environment for the command
 * *parent* : the parent job ID
 * *priority* : the job's priority
 * *dependencies* : the job's dependencies on other jobs
 * *timeout* : the job's timeout in seconds
 * *retry* : how many time to retry this job
 * *affinity* : the job affinities to match
 * *url* : the url to open with the Open link
 * *user* : the user name/email of the owner of this job
 * *globalprogress* : the job progression pattern
 * *localprogress* : the second job progression pattern

== Job execution ==

A new job is in the *WAITING* state.

When a worker run a job, it set the current working directory to *dir* and run the command *cmd*. The job is then in the *WORKING *state. If the command returns with the exit code 0, the job is put in the state *FINISHED*. If not, the job is put in the state *ERROR*.

If the job is in the *ERROR* state, the server will retry to run this job up to *retry* times.

If the job duration exceeds *timeout*, the server will kill this job and set it in the ERROR state.

== Job display ==

The *title* attribute is displayed in the user interface.

The *url* attribute is the url to open with the Open link in the user interface.

By default, the web browser blocks the URLs on local files.

On Firefox, it is possible to override this behavior. Chech this : http://kb.mozillazine.org/Links_to_local_pages_don%27t_work

== Job environment ==

An environment can be provided with a job using the 'env' attribute. An environment is a string containing 
all the variables and their values. The separator is the string "\\n" (a '\' character followed be a 'n' character, not an end of line character).

Here is a string you can use with the 'env' attribute : "USER=mylogin\\nPATH=mypath"

== Job hierarchy ==

The hierarchy is useful to organize and schedule the different jobs.

A job can be the parent of some children jobs. In this case, the parent job won't run any command. Even if the attribute *cmd* has been provided. 

The *parent* attribute can be specified to create a job into a previously created parent job.

The *parent* attribute can be the parent job ID (an integer), a job title (a string) or a path of job titles. Exemples :

 * parent=12345 : add the new job to the job #12345
 * parent="departments" : add the new job to the job named "departments"
 * parent="departments|render" : add the new job to the job named "render" inside the job named "departments"


== Job dependencies ==

The *dependencies* attributes is a job ID list of the different jobs to finish before to run this job.

A list can be provided like this : "1,3,5".

== Job affinities ==

Affinities are used to associate some jobs to a subset of workers.

The affinity attribute is a list of strings, separated by comas.

If a job has an *affinity* attribute, only the workers with the affinities matching all the job's affinities will be able to run this job.

For example, let's say a job has the following *affinity* : "LINUX,24GB". Here is a summary of which worker affinities configuration match the job's one :

|| *Job affinites* || *Worker affinities* || *Match* ||
|| "LINUX,24GB" || "LINUX" || NO ||
|| "LINUX,24GB" || "24GB" || NO ||
|| "LINUX,24GB" || "LINUX,24GB" || YES ||
|| "LINUX,24GB" || "LINUX,24GB,GL" || YES ||

== Job owner ==

The *user* attributes is the user name of the owner of the job. If the emails are activated, the emails regarding this job will be sent at *user*.

If LDAP is configured, the job will be executed with the *user* rights.

== Job log ==

The job's log is the output of the command's stdout and stderr streams. The log is sent by the worker to the server.

The server stores the log in the *logs/* directory, in a file named *ID.log* with ID the ID of the job.

== Job progression ==

The *globalprogress* attribute is a pattern that is used to extract the job progression out of the job's logs. Here are some examples of logs and patterns : 

|| *Log* || *Pattern* || *Progression* ||
|| 25 || %percent || 25% ||
|| (50) || (%percent) || 50% ||
|| 0.75 || %one || 75% ||
|| P:1 || P:%one || 100% ||

The *localprogress* attribute can be used with *globalprogress* to specify a second level of the job progression.

----

= Server =

The coalition server collects the jobs and distributes them to the differents workers.

== Run the server ==

== Add a job ==

It is possible to add a job to the server using control.py or a HTTP request. 

If the job is added, the new job ID is returned.

=== Using control.py ===

You can use control.py to add jobs to the server :

python control.py --cmd="echo toto" --priority=1000 --affinity="linux" --retry=10 http://127.0.0.1:19211 add

=== Using a HTTP request ===

To add a job using the HTTP interface, simply GET or POST the url http://host:port/json/addjob with any job attributes :

Example :

http://127.0.0.1:19211/json/addjob?title=job&cmd=echo toto&priority=1000&affinity=linux&retry=10

== Database backup ==

== LDAP ==

This feature works only under a linux system.

server.py can use LDAP to authenticate the users in order to control access to coalition.

=== LDAP Setup ===

To use a LDAP server, you have to run the server with the two following options in coalition.ini :

{{{
ldaphost=LDAPHOST
ldaptemplate=LDAPTEMPLATE
}}}

LDAPHOST is the host name of the LDAP server.
LDAPTEMPLATE is a template to test the password like :
{{{
uid=__login__,ou=people,dc=exemple,dc=com
}}}
{{{__login__}}} will be replaced by the user login.

If the server is started with the ldaphost option, the user will be asked for their login and password. The jobs will be added with the user's login.

The worker have to be run as root because it will now run the jobs with the user rights. 

 The workers will execute 
the jobs with the user's privileges.

=== Trusted users ===

A trusted user list can be specified in the coalition.ini file like this :

{{{
trustedusers=trustedUser1
 trustedUser2
 trustedUser3
}}}

A trusted user doesn't need to enter its password in LDAP mode.

== White lists ==

The white lists are used to restrict the command available in coalition.

A white list is a list of python style regular expressions. If a white list is active, the command of a job must match at least one regular expression to be added in the job list.

There is a global white list which restrict all the users and a per user white list.

Here is an example of white lists to put in coalition.ini :

{{{
commandwhitelist=^/usr/bin/globalcommand1$
 ^/usr/bin/globalcommand2$
 @user1
 ^/usr/bin/user1command1$
 ^/usr/bin/user1command2$
 @user2
 ^/usr/bin/user2command1$
 ^/usr/bin/user2command2$
}}}

All the users can execute the commands '/usr/bin/globalcommand1' and
'/usr/bin/globalcommand2'.
user1 can execute the command '/usr/bin/user1command1' and '/usr/bin/user1command2'.
user2 can execute the command '/usr/bin/user2command1' and '/usr/bin/user2command2'.
----

= Worker =

----

= Control =